= Strings
Strings in programming mean text(think strings of text). Strings are a pointer to U8 in HolyC(each character is a byte).
You print a string to the screen but just typing it in.
 "I am a string\n"; // \n is a newline
== Escape Sequences Basics
You can use special escape characters to represent special symbols you can't normally type. We precede an *escape sequence* with a backslash.
It looks like this:
 "A new-line is ahead \n";
Sometimes we need escape sequences to represent a *"* inside a string. To do this we use *\"*
 "I am \"quoted\"\n";
We can represent tabs with *\t*.
 "\tI am 1 tab over\n";
== Escape Sequences List
|Sequence|Meaning
|\'| Single quote
|\"| Double quote
|\\| Backslash
|\d| Dollar sign
|\x12| Hexadecimal 0x12(you can use any hex digit)
== Basic String Operations
The most basic string operation compares strings,it is called /StrICmp/. It will compare buy the alphabetical(or by ascii) values of the strings. *It's like dictionary order compare*. It "subtracts" the alphabetical index of A with the alphabetical index of B to compare them,take a look at these examples
 StrICmp("abc","def"); //Returns over lesser than 1 as "abc" comes before "def"
 StrICmp("def","abc"); //Returns over greater than 1 as "def" comes before "abc"
 StrICmp("abc","abc"); //Returns 0 as the alphabetical index of ""abc" and "abc" are the same
/StrICmp/ has some friends too.
|Function| Meaning
|StrCmp(a,b)|Same as StrICmp,but is case-sensitive
|StrNCmp(a,b,n)|Compares first n characters of a and b
|StrNICmp(a,b,n)|  Like StrNCmp but isn't case-sensitive
|StrMatch(needle,haystack)|Look for needle in haystack
|StrIMatch(needle,haystack)|Look for needle in haystack(not case-sensitive)
|StrCpy(dest,src)|Copy src into dest
== Char bitmaps
In TempleOS,we are provided bitmaps that tell up properties about all the characters in the TempleOS character set. Becuase they are *bit*maps,we use /Bt/ to test for the character's bit in the set. 
For example,to test if a character is whitespace we can do
 "%d\n",Bt(char_bmp_white_space,' ');
 "Not whitespace:%d\n",Bt(char_bmp_white_space,'d');
Here are some of the bitmaps
|Bitmap|Meaning
|char_bmp_alpha|Alphabet characters(includes '@')
|char_bmp_alpha_numeric|Alphabet and number characters(includes '@')
|char_bmp_alpha_numeric_no_at| Alphabet characters
|char_bmp_word|Word characters
|char_bmp_dec_numeric|Decimal digits
|char_bmp_hex_numeric|Hexadecimal digits
|char_bmp_white_space|Whitespace(includes end of line)
|char_bmp_non_eol_white_space|Whitespace
== Other String Operations
|Function|Meaning
|StrOcc(str,ch)|  Counts the occurrence of ch in str
|LstSub(idx,lst)| Returns match idx of '%Z' style string
|LstMatch(needle,haystack)| Looks for match of needle in '%Z' style string,returns -1 if not found.
|WildMatch(test,pattern)|Returns a bool if the wildcard pattern matches.
|Str2I64(str,base=10,end_ptr=NULL)| Parses a I64 with base(2,10 or 16)
|Str2F64(str,end_ptr=NULL)|Turns a string into a F64
|StrScan(str,fmt,...)|Opposite of Print,be sure to pass U8!*!* to '%s'(needs a pointer to a string).
== StrUtil and MStrUtil
Have you ever wanted to do typical string routines without re-inventing the wheel.
/StrUtil/ and /MStrUtil/ are your freinds
Let's see an example:
 "%s\n",StrUtil("ABC",SUF_TO_LOWER);
StrUtil takes a string and some flags. 
Here we made the string lowercase.
We can also trim the white space on the string by combining /SUF_REM_LEADING/ and /SUF_REM_TRAILING/.
 "%s\n",StrUtil(" abc def  ",SUF_REM_TRAILING|SUF_REM_LEADING);
=== StrUtil
StrUtil will modify the pointer you provide to it.
 U8 *abc="ABC";
 StrUtil(abc,SUF_TO_LOWER);
 "%s\n",abc;
=== MStrUtil
MStrUtil will create a /MAlloc/'ed copy of the str,*it will not modify the pointer provided to it*.
 U8 *new=MStrUtil("abc",SUF_TO_LOWER);
 "%s\n",new;
 Free(new);
=== Flags
Here are some of the epic flags.
|Flag|Meaning
|SUF_REM_LEADING| Remove leading whitespace 
|SUF_REM_TRAILING| Remove trailing whitespace
|SUF_REM_SPACES|Remove spaces
|SUF_TO_UPPER|Uppercase
|SUF_TO_LOWER|Lowercase
